
Solimar Systems, Inc. End User License Agreement

*** READ THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT BEFORE YOU INSTALL THE SOFTWARE ***

This End User License Agreement ("Agreement") is a legal contract between the end user ("Licensee") 
and Solimar Systems, Inc. ("Solimar"), each a "Party" and collectively the "Parties", governing 
Licensee's Use of the Licensed Software and Product Hardware (collectively the "Product") 
distributed with this Agreement. By Using the Product, you agree to the terms of this Agreement as 
a Licensee. If you do not want to agree, or believe you are not authorized to agree, to the terms 
of this Agreement, you must not Use the Product. 

Carefully read the following terms and conditions before Installing this Solimar Product.  By 
Installing, copying or otherwise Using the Licensed Software, you represent (i) that you have been 
authorized to accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement as a Licensee on behalf of an 
organization (in which event "you" and "your" shall refer to you and such organization, as the case 
may be), or (ii) that you intend to be personally bound by the terms and conditions of this 
Agreement as a Licensee.  If you are not so authorized or do not intend to be personally bound, 
then Solimar is unwilling to license you the Licensed Software and the Installation, copying or Use 
of the Licensed Software is a violation of U.S. and international copyright laws and conventions.  
If you accept these terms for an organization on whose behalf you are authorized to act, you may 
Install, copy or Use the Licensed Software only on behalf of such organization.  If you intend to 
be personally bound, you may Install, copy or Use the Licensed Software only for you personally.  
If you do not agree with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, do not Install, copy or 
otherwise Use the Licensed Software, and promptly return the Licensed Software, text files and any 
accompanying written materials (the "Documentation"), and any packaging.

A. SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT
1.	These definitions shall govern the use of terms in this Agreement: "Solimar Systems, Inc." a 
California corporation, whose address is 1515 Second Avenue, San Diego, California 92101, is the 
author and owner or authorized distributor of the Licensed Software and developer or authorized 
distributor of the Product Hardware; "Designated Device" is a standalone computer workstation or 
printing device containing a central processing unit (CPU) and random access memory (RAM) that 
runs the Licensed Software using only the CPU and RAM in that workstation or printing device. 
"Licensed Software" is the set of computer programs and files licensed to Licensee, regardless 
of the form in which Licensee may subsequently use them, and regardless of any modification 
which Licensee may make to them. Licensed Software includes (a) all of the contents of the 
files, disk(s), CD-ROM(s) or other media with which this Agreement is provided, including but 
not limited to (i) Solimar or third party computer information or software; (ii) related 
explanatory written materials or files ("Documentation"); (iii) fonts; and (b) upgrades, 
modified versions, updates, additions, and copies of the Licensed Software, if any; (iv) Adobe 
Systems Incorporated ("Adobe") Technology and related documentation, and any upgrades, modified 
versions, updates, additions, and copies thereof that may be distributed in the set of computer 
programs and files licensed to Licensee. The Licensed Software is licensed in machine-readable 
form or other appropriate binary format as determined by Solimar in its sole discretion; 
"License" means a license to Use the Licensed Software and Product Hardware pursuant to the 
terms of this Agreement and the rights and obligations which it creates under United States 
Copyright law and the laws of the several states and territories of the United States; 
"Licensee" is the end user (individual or company) of the Licensed Software or Product Hardware; 
"Use", "Used" or "Using" means to install, access, operate, configure, copy or otherwise benefit 
from using the functionality of the Licensed Software or Product Hardware; "Computer System" 
means any type of single computer or workstation containing one or more central processing 
units. A "Server" means a Computer System which operates as a server in a client/server 
architecture.  A "Client" means a Computer System which operates as a client in a client/server 
architecture. "Install" means to copy, download or transfer any Licensed Software to the memory, 
hard drive or storage device of, or usable by, any Computer System or device capable of running 
the Licensed Software, and "Installation", "Installing" and "Installed" shall have corresponding 
meanings.  "Installed Copy" means a copy of Licensed Software that has been Installed;

2.	On the terms of this Agreement, Solimar Systems, Inc. grants to Licensee the non-exclusive, non-
transferable (by operation of law or otherwise) License to Use the Licensed Software for the 
purposes, devices, time periods, performance constraints, and utilization constraints 
(collectively the "Permissions") designated by Solimar for the specific modules and programs 
licensed hereunder by Licensee. Solimar may designate the Permissions on an invoice for those 
specific modules and programs, on a License Certificate that Solimar provides to Licensee, 
within the Licensed Software, with Protection Key(s) or by a software system Solimar chooses. A 
License Certificate is a document generated by Solimar that specifies the Licensed Software 
modules, purposes, devices, time periods, performance constraints, and utilization constraints 
approved by Solimar for Licensee's use under this Agreement. Unless otherwise approved by 
Solimar in writing, Licensee may Use the Licensed Software on one Designated Device that is 
compatible with the Permissions and, if not otherwise permitted, uses a single CPU. If the 
Designated Device is a standalone computer workstation and is inoperative because of (i) 
malfunction, (ii) performance of maintenance, or (iii) modification to the Designated Device, 
Licensee may Use the Licensed Software on a backup or substitute computer while the Designated 
Device is inoperative, provided that the Protection Key for the inoperative Designated Device is 
fully supported, as is, by the backup or substitute computer. Except as otherwise approved by 
Solimar in writing, Licensee may Use the Licensed Software on only one computer or printing 
device, regardless of the number of updates, unless Licensee has paid Solimar the License fee 
set by Solimar for Using the Licensed Software on additional computers or printing devices. If 
the Licensed Software is an update or upgrade, Licensee is authorized to use the Licensed 
Software only if it is an authorized user of a qualifying product as determined by Solimar.  In 
such case, the Licensed Software and this Agreement replace the qualifying product and any 
license agreement with respect to such qualifying product. Except as herein provided for backup 
and disaster recovery, Licensee must uninstall the Licensed Software from the current Designated 
Device in order to use a replacement Designated Device. Licensee shall not modify or distribute 
the Licensed Software. Solimar may immediately terminate Licensee's License to Use the Licensed 
Software if Licensee violates any term of this Agreement. In such event and unless otherwise 
authorized by Solimar, Licensee must promptly remove and return to Solimar the Licensed Software 
and all of its component parts including all media and hardcopy Documentation, and Licensee must 
destroy any electronically stored copies. Licensee agrees not to Use the Product for any purpose 
unless Solimar has granted Licensee an Evaluation Period or unless Licensee, or Authorized 
Reseller acting on Licensee's behalf, has paid Solimar the fee set by Solimar for Licensee's Use 
of the Product for such purpose. Licensee shall pay (and reimburse Solimar on request if Solimar 
is required to pay) any sales, use, value added (VAT), withholding, consumption or other tax 
(excluding any tax on Solimar's net income) or other fee or charge of any kind or nature that is 
levied or imposed by any governmental authority on Licensee's Use or License of the Licensed 
Software, Product Hardware or Documentation.

3.	In its sole discretion, Solimar may grant Licensee temporary authorization to Use the Product 
for the purpose of evaluating or demonstrating the Product in accordance with the terms of this 
Agreement (an "Evaluation Period"). Solimar determines the length of an Evaluation Period, and 
Solimar may terminate this temporary License and Evaluation Period at any time.  For Use of the 
Product beyond this authorized Evaluation Period, Licensee agrees to pay Solimar a fee set by 
Solimar in Solimar's sole discretion. 

4.  If at any time Licensee requires additional copies of the Licensed Software or a change to the 
Licensed Software Permissions, Licensee shall contact Solimar or an authorized Solimar 
distributor or reseller to obtain such Licenses. If Licensee makes or Installs additional copies 
of the Licensed Software contrary to this Agreement or if Licensee's Usage at any time exceeds 
the Permissions for which Licensee has paid a License fee, then, in addition to any other 
remedies Solimar may have, Licensee agrees to immediately make payment to Solimar for such 
unlicensed Installed Copies or additional Permissions at Solimar's then-current list prices.

5.	A Production License is a License to Use Solimar Licensed Software and Product Hardware in 
commercial, for-profit, production Use and not solely for testing, evaluating, demonstrating or 
providing backup for the Product. A Demonstration License is a restricted-use License to Use 
Solimar Licensed Software to test, support or demonstrate applications of the Product but not to 
run, or to provide backup of, for-profit, production applications. A Backup License is a 
restricted-use License to Use the Licensed Software for a limited period of time designated in 
the Permissions and for the sole purpose of providing backup to a Production License of a 
Designated Device which has become inoperative. A Test License or a Development License is a 
restricted-use License to Use the Licensed Software solely for the purposes of testing Product 
applications and providing backup for a Production License. Licensee's Use of a Test License or 
a Development License for backup and disaster recovery of Licensee's Production License is 
conditional and requires that (i) Licensee's Production License system is inoperative and (ii) 
the Permissions granted for the Test License or Development License are equal to or greater than 
those Permissions Licensed in the inoperative Production License. A Development License or Test 
License provides Licensee with restricted usage for intervals and increments of time (a 
Development Period or Test Period, respectively) as set by the Permissions. Solimar may require 
payment of both Solimar's designated fee for a Development or Test License, as well as Solimar's 
designated annual maintenance and license fees for any associated Production Licenses, as a 
condition of granting a Development License, Development Period, Test License or Test Period. 
Solimar will designate whether the License granted hereunder is a Production, Demonstration, 
Development, Test or Backup License in the Permissions.



6.  Licensee shall not, and shall not permit others to, modify, translate, reverse engineer, 
decompile, disassemble, create derivative works based on, copy (except as necessary for Use 
under this Agreement or for back-up or archival purposes) or otherwise Use the Licensed Software 
or its Protection Key (or any portion thereof), including for reasons of error correction or 
interoperability, except (i) as permitted under this Agreement; and (ii) to the extent expressly 
permitted by applicable law and to the extent Solimar is not permitted by that applicable law to 
exclude or limit such rights. Licensee may not assign, sublicense, rent, lease, sell, transfer 
or otherwise make available the Licensed Software to another person, subsidiary, parent company 
or other company without the express written permission of Solimar. This Agreement does not 
grant Licensee any right to access, possess, or Use any source code for the Licensed Software. 
If Licensee Uses the Licensed Software to serve the production needs of another person or 
entity, then any Use of the License shall be restricted to the physical premises in which the 
Licensed Software is first so Used.

7.  The Licensed Software is a proprietary product of Solimar Systems, Inc., and its structure, 
organization, performance characteristics and code are the valuable trade secrets and 
confidential information of Solimar and its suppliers. The Licensed Software is protected by 
copyright, including without limitation United States Copyright Law, international treaty 
provisions and applicable laws in the country in which it is being Used.  Licensee shall 
maintain all copyright and other proprietary notices on the Licensed Software, including on any 
copies permitted under this Agreement, and Licensee shall not alter, deface or otherwise obscure 
any copyright or other proprietary notice on the Licensed Software and its Documentation. The 
Licensed Software is Licensed, not sold. Licensee may not make any copies of the Licensed 
Software nor allow anyone else to make any copies of the Licensed Software except that the 
Licensee may make a reasonable number of archival copies of the Licensed Software so long as 
these archival copies are maintained for the exclusive purpose of restoring a properly Licensed 
configuration of the Licensed Software in the event of computer failure or a loss of 
configuration data.  Solimar authorizes Licensee to reproduce so many copies of the Licensed 
Software Documentation as are reasonably necessary for internal purposes in support of the 
Licenses purchased by Licensee. Licensee's rights hereunder are those of a Licensed user only 
and the Licensed Software shall at all times remain the property of Solimar. Except as expressly 
stated herein, this Agreement does not grant Licensee any intellectual property rights in the 
Licensed Software and all rights not expressly granted are reserved by Solimar. You may not copy 
the Licensed Software, except as provided in this Agreement. Any copies that you are permitted 
to make pursuant to this Agreement must contain the same copyright and other proprietary notices 
that appear in the Licensed Software. Adobe and Adobe PDF Library are either registered 
trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other 
countries.

8.	Unless otherwise designated by Solimar in writing, Solimar warrants the operation of the 
Licensed Software and Product Hardware (as set forth in Section C) on a Designated Device (as 
set forth in Section A) with the operating system and environment for which it was designed as 
determined by Solimar. Attempts to Use the Licensed Software in a modified operating system or 
environment may not be supported. Use of the Licensed Software in conjunction with any non-
Solimar product that modifies, decompiles or recompiles the Licensed Software or in any way 
creates a derivative or modified copy of the Licensed Software is not an authorized Use. 
Further, such unauthorized Use is not supported by Solimar and voids the Solimar product 
warranty set forth below, as well as voids Licensee's authorization to Use the Product.

9.	This License shall continue, subject to the Permissions designated by Solimar and expiration or 
limits of usage of an applicable Evaluation Period or relevant Production, Test, Development, 
Demonstration or Backup License, so long as Licensee uses the Licensed Software in compliance 
with the terms and conditions of this Agreement. Licensee may terminate this Agreement and 
Licensee's License at any time by removing the Licensed Software from all Designated Devices and 
destroying all copies of the Licensed Software and all copies of the Documentation and 
certifying to Solimar in a written notice that it has done so and wishes to terminate this 
Agreement; however, any protections granted to Solimar under this Agreement shall survive 
termination of this Agreement and Licensee shall promptly pay Solimar any debts or fees accrued 
by Licensee that are payable to Solimar.  Unauthorized copying of the Licensed Software or the 
Documentation or otherwise failing to comply with the terms and conditions of this Agreement by 
Licensee will result in the automatic termination of the Licenses granted to Licensee under this 
Agreement and will make available to Solimar other legal remedies.  Upon termination of this 
Agreement for any reason, the Licenses granted herein will terminate and Licensee shall 
immediately destroy the Licensed Software and Documentation and all back-up copies thereof.  In 
addition, except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, under no circumstances shall Licensee 
be entitled to a refund or return of any purchase price or License fees paid upon termination of 
this Agreement for any reason.



10. Output from Products identified as iCONVERT or aCONVERT shall not be used with systems 
developed by Critical Path, Inc. without the specific written authorization of Solimar Systems, 
Inc. and Tumbleweed Communications Corp.

11. If the Licensed Software includes font software, you may embed the font software, or outlines 
of the fonts software, into your electronic documents to the extent that the font vendor 
copyright owner allows for such embedding. The fonts contained in this package may contain both 
Adobe and non-Adobe owned fonts. You may fully embed any font owned by Adobe.

B. PRODUCT HARDWARE

"Product Hardware" refers to those specific computer hardware components and related accessories 
distributed by Solimar for use with Licensed Software and identified by Solimar as Bus/Tag (IBM 
S/370 Channel) Input or Output adapter, SCSI Shared Disk Interface module adapter and disk drive, 
Parallel Input or Output module adapter, Twinax Input module adapter, Tape Input module SCSI 
adapter, RJE SDLC module adapter, a hardware Protection Key and such other items that Solimar may 
specifically designate as Product Hardware. Product Hardware does not include personal computers or 
any other components not identified as Product Hardware by Solimar. Any Product Hardware sold to 
Licensee by Solimar shall be used solely in conjunction with the Licensed Software.  The sale of 
Product Hardware to Licensee does not convey to Licensee any intellectual property rights in such 
Product Hardware, including without limitation any patent, trademark, copyright, or trade secret.  
Neither the sale of such Product Hardware nor any provision of this Agreement shall be construed to 
grant to Licensee, either expressly, by implication, or by way of estoppel, any license under any 
patents or other intellectual property rights of Solimar or its licensors covering or relating to 
any other product or invention or any combination of Product Hardware or Licensed Software with any 
other product.

C. LIMITED WARRANTY
Solimar warrants, for a period of one (1) year following the date that the Licensed Software or 
Product Hardware was shipped or otherwise first made available to Licensee (the "Warranty Period"), 
that the Licensed Software and Product Hardware will substantially conform to the accompanying 
Documentation, provided Solimar has been paid the requisite licensing fee set by Solimar for 
Licensee's Use of the Product.  Provided Licensee reports, in writing, a significant, non-
conforming defect or error in the Licensed Software or Product Hardware to Solimar during the 
warranty period, Solimar shall provide support by telephone, email, or other electronic means, 
Monday through Friday 8AM to 5PM Pacific Time, excluding government recognized holidays, to provide 
workarounds or to correct significant and demonstrable Licensed Software program or Documentation 
errors within a reasonable period of time using commercially reasonable efforts. Solimar does not 
guarantee it will be able to resolve all identified problems or errors. In the event that the 
defect or error is a failure of a Product Hardware component under normal operating conditions, as 
determined by Solimar in its exclusive discretion, Solimar, at its option, shall repair or replace 
the failing Product Hardware component within a reasonable period of time.

In the event that Solimar replaces the failing Product Hardware component, Licensee shall return 
the failing component to Solimar by three day or faster air freight, within seven (7) business days 
of shipment by Solimar of the replacement component and with the applicable Solimar Return Material 
Authorization number indicated on the outside of the shipping container. Licensee shall pay the 
freight charge of replacement component and the freight charge of the failing component being 
returned to Solimar. Licensee shall pay any duties, bonds, import/export fees and any taxes related 
to the failed or replacement components. Solimar shall ship the replacement component F.O.B. 
Solimar Systems, Inc., San Diego, CA. Licensee shall keep the replacement component.  Solimar shall 
keep the failing component. If Solimar does not receive the failing component within fourteen (14) 
days of shipment of the replacement component, Licensee shall pay the current spare part price for 
the replacement component.  Licensee shall settle its claim by returning the failing component, by 
returning the replacement component, or by paying for the replacement component. Licensee's failure 
to settle its claim within thirty (30) days of shipment of the replacement component is a breach of 
this Agreement.



THE FOREGOING WARRANTY IN SECTION C IS THE ONLY WARRANTY MADE BY SOLIMAR.  SOLIMAR AND ITS 
SUPPLIERS, INCLUDING ADOBE, MAKE AND LICENSEE RECEIVES NO OTHER WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND 
SOLIMAR EXPRESSLY EXCLUDES ALL WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, 
TITLE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.  SOLIMAR DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE OPERATION OF THE LICENSED SOFTWARE 
OR PRODUCT HARDWARE WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE.  SOLIMAR IS NOT LIABLE FOR LICENSEE'S LOSS 
OF LICENSED SOFTWARE OR PRODUCT HARDWARE DUE TO FIRE, THEFT, ABUSE, WEATHER, OR ANY OTHER CAUSE. 
SOLIMAR WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY SUCH CLAIM BY ANY OTHER PARTY. LICENSEE'S SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE 
REMEDY FOR THE BREACH OF ANY PROVISIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT OR FOR BREACH OF WARRANTY SHALL BE 
LIMITED TO THE REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT OF THE LICENSED SOFTWARE OR PRODUCT HARDWARE, OR SOLIMAR'S 
COMMERCIALLY REASONABLE EFFORTS TO CORRECT THE LICENSED SOFTWARE OR ITS DOCUMENTATION, OR A REFUND 
OF THE PURCHASE PRICE, DEPRECIATED MONTHLY ON A THREE YEAR STRAIGHT LINE BASIS, OF AN AFFECTED 
LICENSED SOFTWARE MODULE OR A PRODUCT HARDWARE COMPONENT. THE CHOICE OF REMEDIES SHALL BE MADE AT 
THE OPTION OF SOLIMAR.

IN NO EVENT WILL SOLIMAR OR ITS SUPPLIERS, INCLUDING ADOBE, BE LIABLE TO LICENSEE FOR LOST DATA OR 
DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY LOSS OF PROFITS, LOST SAVINGS, OR OTHER INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR 
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, ARISING OUT OF THE LICENSEE'S USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE THE LICENSED 
SOFTWARE OR PRODUCT HARDWARE, REGARDLESS OF THE FORM OF ACTION, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT, 
NEGLIGENCE, STRICT PRODUCT LIABILITY, OR OTHERWISE, EVEN IF SOLIMAR OR AN AUTHORIZED SOLIMAR 
RESELLER HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH LOSS OR DAMAGES, OR FOR ANY CLAIM BY ANY THIRD 
PARTY. IN NO EVENT SHALL SOLIMAR'S LIABILITY UNDER ANY LEGAL THEORY EXCEED THE LICENSE FEE PAID TO 
SOLIMAR FOR LICENSEE'S USE OF THE LICENSED SOFTWARE. NO DEALER, AGENT OR EMPLOYEE OF SOLIMAR IS 
AUTHORIZED TO MAKE ANY MODIFICATIONS, EXTENSIONS OR ADDITIONS TO THIS LIMITED WARRANTY. SOLIMAR'S 
LIMITATION OF LIABILITY IS CUMULATIVE, WITH ALL SOLIMAR'S EXPENDITURES BEING AGGREGATED TO 
DETERMINE SATISFACTION OF THE LIMIT. THE EXISTENCE OF CLAIMS OR SUITS AGAINST MORE THAN ONE SOLIMAR 
PRODUCT LICENSED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT ENLARGE OR EXTEND THE LIMIT. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO 
NOT ALLOW THE LIMITATION OR EXCLUSION OF LIABILITY FOR INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR 
LIMITATIONS ON HOW LONG AN IMPLIED WARRANTY MAY LAST, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO 
YOU. THE LIMITATIONS SET FORTH ABOVE SHALL BE DEEMED TO APPLY TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY 
APPLICABLE LAW AND NOTWITHSTANDING THE ESSENTIAL FAILURE OF THE ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY LIMITED 
WARRANTY OR REMEDY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT.  TO THE EXTENT PERMISSIBLE, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES 
ARE LIMITED TO THIRTY (30) DAYS. THIS WARRANTY GIVES YOU SPECIFIC LEGAL RIGHTS. YOU MAY HAVE OTHER 
RIGHTS WHICH VARY FROM STATE TO STATE OR JURISDICTION TO JURISDICTION. LICENSEE ACKNOWLEDGES AND 
AGREES THAT LICENSEE HAS FULLY CONSIDERED THE FOREGOING ALLOCATION OF RISK AND FINDS IT REASONABLE, 
AND THAT THE FOREGOING LIMITATIONS ARE AN ESSENTIAL BASIS OF THE BARGAIN BETWEEN THE PARTIES. IF 
LICENSEE DOES NOT ACCEPT THIS ALLOCATION OF RISK, LICENSEE SHALL NOT USE THE PRODUCT.

D. PRODUCT MAINTENANCE
Licensee shall be entitled to Technical Support and Software Updates, as well as repair or 
replacement of failing Product Hardware components (collectively "Product Maintenance"), during a 
Support Period. A Support Period is a period of time for which Licensee, or an authorized Solimar 
reseller performing on Licensee's behalf, has paid Solimar a fee designated by Solimar for Solimar 
to provide Licensee such Product Maintenance. Technical Support shall mean support provided by 
Solimar by telephone, email, or other electronic means to assist Licensee with Licensed Software 
and Product Hardware configuration and operation. Technical Support shall not include the writing 
of programs or scripts; however, Solimar, in its sole discretion, may offer or provide such writing 
of programs or scripts. Any such programs or scripts written by Solimar shall remain the property 
of Solimar and shall be licensed to Licensee under the terms of this Agreement, to be used with 
Solimar Product while such Solimar Product is in a Support Period. The terms, hours, prices and 
availability for Product Maintenance and Support Periods shall be determined exclusively by 
Solimar. From time to time, Solimar, in its sole discretion, may create updated versions of the 
Licensed Software for general availability ("Software Updates"). So long as a Licensed System is 
within a Support Period, Licensee may update its Licensed Software with these Software Updates. 
Software Updates will not include any enhancement, modification, or new versions of the Licensed 
Software that Solimar decides, in its sole discretion, to make generally available as a separately 
priced item. Software Updates that you install and updates to the Documentation shall be deemed 
part of the Licensed Software or Documentation, as the case may be, and are licensed pursuant to 
the terms set forth in this Agreement. Solimar is not required to provide Product Maintenance to 
Licensee outside of a Support Period except as otherwise provided under a Warranty Period. If 
Licensee has more than one Licensed System from Solimar, the eligibility of each Licensed System 
for Product Maintenance applies to each Licensed System separately. Solimar is not required to 
offer Support Periods for any Product after the Warranty Period. Solimar may require all Licensed 
Systems used on a Designated Device or with a Protection Key to be within an active Support Period 
for any such Licensed System to be within a Support Period. A Licensed System is the Licensed 
Software and Product Hardware properly licensed on, and actively enabled by, a Protection Key.



Licensee shall give Solimar access to the Licensed Software, the hardware on which the Licensed 
Software is installed and all relevant documentation and records, and shall provide such reasonable 
assistance as Solimar may request including, without limitation, sample output and other diagnostic 
information to help reproduce errors reported by Licensee.

Solimar shall not be obligated to provide Licensee with Product Maintenance unless Licensee is 
entitled to Product Maintenance. Solimar shall not be obligated to provide Product Maintenance from 
any particular location or by any particular means except by mail, telephone or email. Solimar 
shall have no responsibility under these Product Maintenance provisions for the installation or 
personal delivery of any Licensed Software, Product Hardware or any Software Updates.  Solimar may, 
under circumstances determined by Solimar in its sole discretion, provide certain aspects of 
Product Maintenance at an alternate site or in an alternate means. Licensee may procure on site 
support services or installation services from Solimar, at Solimar's discretion and at Solimar's 
then-current published rates for professional services, pursuant to Solimar's standard services 
terms.

Solimar is not required to provide Product Maintenance services relating to problems arising out of 
(i) Licensee's failure to implement all available Software Updates to the then current version of 
the Licensed Software; (ii) changes to Licensee's operating systems or environment which adversely 
affect the Licensed Software; (iii) any alterations of, or additions to, the Licensed Software 
performed by parties other than Solimar; (iv) accident, negligence, or misuse of the Licensed 
Software; (v) other software products not supplied by Solimar; (vi) use of the Licensed Software on 
a Computer System or operating system, or with software or peripherals, that are not compatible 
with those specified in the Documentation; or (vii) failure by Licensee to implement 
recommendations in respect of solutions to faults previously advised by Solimar. Solimar will be 
obligated to provide Product Maintenance for only the then-current production release or version of 
the Licensed Software.
 
Solimar's obligation to provide Product Maintenance for any particular Licensed Software is subject 
to Licensee being in compliance with all of Licensee's obligations under this Agreement. All fees 
paid to Solimar for Product Maintenance are non-refundable at Solimar's discretion.

E. U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS
If Licensee is, or is acting on behalf of, an agency or instrumentality of the United States 
Government, the Licensed Software and Documentation are "Commercial Items" as that term is defined 
at 48 C.F.R. §2.101, developed exclusively at private expense and consisting of "Commercial 
Computer Software" and "Commercial Computer Software Documentation," as such terms are used in 48 
C.F.R. §12.212 or 48 C.F.R. §227.7202, as applicable. Consistent with 48 C.F.R. §12.212 or 48 
C.F.R. §§227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4, as applicable, the Commercial Computer Software and 
Commercial Computer Software Documentation are being licensed to U.S. Government end users or any 
agency or department thereof (a) only as Commercial Items and (b) with only those rights as are 
granted to all other end users pursuant to the terms and conditions in this Agreement.

If you are the U.S. Government or any agency or department thereof (collectively referred to as the 
"Government"), you agree to notify Solimar if this Agreement fails to meet the Government's minimum 
needs or is inconsistent with U.S. federal procurement law.  If you are any agency of the 
Department of Defense of the Government, the following notice is given:  The Licensed Software and 
Documentation are provided with RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  You shall not use, duplicate or disclose the 
Licensed Software or Documentation in any way not specifically permitted by this Agreement or 
mandated by U.S. law.  Manufacturer is Solimar Systems, Inc. 1515 Second Avenue, San Diego, CA 
92101.

F. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS
The Licensed Software is property of Solimar Systems, Inc.  Copyright 1991-2010.

The Licensed Software and the Documentation are owned by Solimar and its suppliers and licensors 
and are protected by a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and/or copyright laws and 
international treaty provisions, as applicable. Licensee agrees that Solimar and its suppliers and 
licensors retain all right, title, and interest in the Licensed Software and Documentation and in 
all of Solimar's patents, trademarks, trade names, inventions, copyrights, know-how, and trade 
secrets relating to the design, manufacture, operation or service of the Licensed Software and 
Product Hardware.  The use by Licensee of any of Solimar's property rights is authorized only for 
the purposes herein set forth, and upon termination of this License for any reason such 
authorization shall cease.  Licensee understands and agrees that the Licensed Software contains 
trade secrets and confidential information belonging to Solimar and its suppliers and licensors, 
and Licensee agrees to take all reasonable steps to protect the confidentiality of any such trade 
secrets and confidential information.

G. PROTECTION KEY
The Protection Key contains product licensing and control information and may consist of software 
programs, data files and one or more hardware devices that attach to a parallel or other I/O port 
of the Designated Device. Solimar, in its sole discretion, shall determine whether the Protection 
Key shall include a hardware device for a Product. Solimar may require the return or destruction of 
specific Protection Keys as a condition of the replacement of a Protection Key or as a condition of 
the Permissions granted with a license. The Protection Key is provided for use with the Licensed 
Software subject to the Permissions. Licensee's attempts to reverse engineer the Protection Key or 
its product licensing information or Licensee's failure to return or destroy a Protection Key (at 
Solimar's sole discretion) within the period allotted in Section C for return of failing components 
is a breach of this Agreement. Replacement price of a Protection Key is the then-current list price 
of the Licensed Software enabled by that Protection Key.

H. MISCELLANEOUS
Each Party acknowledges that it has read all the terms of this Agreement, understands it, and 
agrees to be bound by its terms.  The Parties agree that this Agreement constitutes the complete 
and exclusive statement of the agreement between the Parties related to Licensee's Use of the 
Product and of Solimar's warranties, and that this Agreement supersedes all prior proposals, oral 
or written, between the Parties related to this subject.  Each Party acknowledges that it is not 
relying upon any representations or statements as to the subject matter of this Agreement except as 
specifically set forth in this writing.

The Licensed Software and Product Hardware are not designed, manufactured or intended for use as a 
security device.  Licensee is responsible for determining all security requirements necessary and 
appropriate for its network and computer systems.  In addition, the Licensed Software and Product 
Hardware are not designed, manufactured or intended for use in any environment in which the failure 
of the Licensed Software or Product Hardware could lead to death, personal injury, or severe 
physical or environmental damage, such as in the design or operation of nuclear facilities, 
aircraft navigation or communication systems, air traffic control, direct life support machines, or 
weapons systems or in the on-line control of equipment in any hazardous environment requiring fail-
safe performance  ("Ultrahazardous Activities"). Solimar, its licensors and suppliers specifically 
disclaim any express or implied warranty of fitness for Ultrahazardous Activities. Licensee 
represents and warrants to Solimar that it will not Use or allow the Licensed Software or Product 
Hardware to be Used for such purposes. 

This Agreement shall not be modified by purchase orders, advertising, or other representations of 
anyone without explicit written agreement by Solimar.  Licensee agrees that any purchase order 
submitted by it is for administrative purposes only and that any provisions in such purchase order 
or its associated terms and conditions which are different from, or in addition to, the terms of 
this Agreement shall not be binding on Solimar, even if signed and returned, unless both Licensee 
and Solimar expressly agree in a separate writing, signed by duly authorized officers, to be bound 
by such provisions. No change, modification, or waiver of this Agreement, or any of the provisions 
herein contained, except where provided as Solimar's discretion or as information contained in 
another Solimar generated document or software, shall be valid unless made in writing and signed by 
duly authorized officers of the parties. A waiver by either Party of its rights hereunder shall not 
be binding unless contained in a written agreement signed by an authorized officer of the Party 
waiving its rights.  The non-enforcement or waiver of any provision on one occasion shall not 
constitute a waiver of such provision on any other occasion unless expressly so agreed in writing. 

The Parties have requested that this Agreement and all documents contemplated hereby be drawn up in 
English.  Les Parties aux présentes ont exigé que cette entente et tous autres documents envisagés 
par les présentes soient rédigés en anglais.  Licensee waives any right it may have under the laws 
of the country where the Licensed Software is Licensed to have this Agreement written in any other 
language.

This Agreement is specific to the versions of Licensed Software distributed with it. Solimar may 
revise this Agreement for other versions of Licensed Software. Licensee may not assign this 
Agreement without the prior written consent of Solimar.

In the event that Licensee has licensed this version of Licensed Software under a separate, fully 
executed end user license agreement with Solimar, the terms of such end user license agreement will 
govern Licensee's Installation and Use of the Software.  In all other cases, the terms and 
conditions of this Agreement will govern Licensee's Installation and Use of the Licensed Software.

This agreement shall be governed, construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State 
of California without regard to any applicable conflicts of law principles and is deemed entered 
into at San Diego County, California, by both Parties, and the Parties expressly disclaim and 
exclude the applicability of the United Nations Convention on the International Sale of Goods and 
the Uniform Computer Information Transactions Act. If any provision of this Agreement shall be 
declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be excessively broad as to scope, activity, 
subject or otherwise so as to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable at law, such provision shall be 
construed by limiting or reducing it so as to be enforceable to the maximum extent compatible with 
the applicable law as it shall then appear and shall not affect the validity and enforceability of 
the remaining provisions of this Agreement, which shall remain valid and enforceable according to 
their terms. This Agreement shall not prejudice the statutory rights of any party dealing as a 
consumer.

The Parties acknowledge that the laws and regulations of the United States may restrict the export 
and re-export of certain commodities and technical data of United States origin, including software 
code in any medium.  Licensee agrees that it will not export or re-export software code or other 
technical data provided hereunder in any form without appropriate United States and foreign 
government licenses. None of the Licensed Software or Product Hardware or underlying information or 
technology may be downloaded or otherwise exported or re-exported (i) into (or to a national or 
resident of) Cuba, Iraq, Libya, Sudan, North Korea, Iran, Syria, Serbia or any other country to 
which the Government has embargoed goods; or (ii) to anyone on the U.S. Treasury Department's list 
of Specifically Designated Nationals or the U.S. Commerce Department's Table of Denial Orders.  You 
agree that the Licensed Software will not be shipped, transferred or exported into any country or 
used in any manner prohibited by the United States Export Administration Act or any other export 
laws, restrictions or regulations (collectively the "Export Laws"). By Installing, copying or Using 
the Licensed Software, you agree to the foregoing and represent and warrant that you are not 
located in, under the control of, or a national, citizen or resident of any such country or on any 
such list and that you are not otherwise prohibited under the Export Laws from receiving the 
Licensed Software.  In addition, you agree to comply with all relevant export laws and regulations 
of the United States and any local laws in your jurisdiction that may impact your right to import, 
export or Use the Licensed Software, and you represent that you have complied with any regulation 
or registration procedures required by applicable law to make this license enforceable.

All notices or other communications given under this agreement shall be in writing and shall be 
deemed given when delivered in person or 3 days after being deposited with the United States Postal 
Service, Certified or Registered with Return Receipt Requested, or when signed for by a lawful 
representative of recipient and delivered by Federal Express, DHL or United Parcel Service.  If 
such notices are to Solimar, they shall be sent to "Attention: President" at the most recent 
address designated in writing by Solimar, which address shall be 1515 Second Avenue, San Diego, 
California 92101 U.S.A. as of May 12, 1998.  If such notices are to Licensee, they shall be sent to 
the address to which the Licensed Software was first shipped unless otherwise designated in writing 
by Licensee.

Copyright 2010 Solimar Systems, Inc. All rights reserved. (20100305)